## Abstract
In this presentation I will discuss my approach and practice to “Citizen Data Science” (CDC) which involves the generation of crowdsourced research questions with communities, and the extraction of meaningful information using open data from different sources. CDC represents a methodological proposal and an activist endeavour, in terms of creating participatory research projects where citizen can gather and learn together to solve questions, transforming open data into publicly available findings. I will discuss how my approach to CDC differ from the use of citizen data science in industry, and is more connected with the field of “digital humanities”, where computational methods are used for social scientist to resolve problems about culture, arts, society or territory (Burdick et al., 2012). In this sense, the aim of CDC is to advance one step further into the use and analysis of open data or “quasi-public” data (Braco, 2013), and moving towards the generation of public information. Openness is a functional capacity (like downloading data), while public means the capacity to use, and in this case, to extract meaning from data. To illustrate my approach to CDC I will be presenting the experience and outcomes of a series of workshops conducted at two Universities in Santiago, Chile, where participants (architects, designers, students) as data ‘visualizers” were obtaining and transforming open data into public data, using their existing knowledge and developing creative methods to manage and visualize their responses to a research question.
 
***
 
Cristian Hernández is an expert in spatial analysis and natural language processing. He works as a consultant for nonprofit organizations and start-up’s in Europe and Latin America. Cristian is currently leading a citizen data science project on light pollution called “Octal”, part of the Stars4All Program (EU funded), aimed at training people in data science methods and designing experiences using data visualizations. 

